MultiEnum
=========

An enumeration type supporting multiple equivalent names.

Rationale
---------

I find the types defined in the built-in ``enum`` type in Python 3 to be
clumsy and hard to use for my purposes.  Further, I have a project which
repeatedly requires me to resolve strings to numbers and then back to
sometimes different strings, based on the context.  This module is the
result of that.

The implementation subclasses ``int``, which allows for the value of the
enumeration to be stored in a minimal amount of space, while providing a
number of attributes of the object for converting it to different names.

Usage
-----

Implementation should define _members, which is a tuple of tuples.  The first
value of each of the internal tuples should be an integer (or else it will be
implicitly cast as such) and will be the stored value for the instane.  All
subsequent values will be names by which that int can be called.  The value
can be instantiated with any of the names provided either using the
appropriate field name as a keyword, or, so long as it is unique across all
fields, as an un-keyworded argument.  There is no test to ensure that names
are unique -- if a name appears multiple times in the _members tuples, the
behavior is undefined.

If more than one argument is given, either keyworded or not, a ValueError
exception will be raised unless all arguments resolve to the same value.

The ``MultiEnum`` type makes an attempt to be idempotent -- i.e., if ``x`` is
an ``MultiEnum``, ``x is MultiEnum(x)`` should be true.  However, in the case
of multiple init values, idempotency is only preserved for the first
positional parameter.  ``x is MultiEnum(a, x)`` will not be true, even if
``a`` and ``x`` are equal.

By default, the second value in the tuple (first value after the int value)
will be returned if the value is cast as a string (using the str() function,
for instance).  For compatability with the types in the enum module, the same
value will be returned using the 'name' attribute.

Example
-------

    >>> from multienum import MultiEnum
    >>> class SampleEnum(MultiEnum):
    ...   _members = (("zero", "zip", "zÃ©ro", "cero"),
    ...               ("one", "ace", "une", "uno"),
    ...               ("two", "deuce", "deux", "dos"))
    ...   _fields = ('english', 'slang', 'french', 'spanish')
    >>> val1 = SampleEnum("one")
    >>> int(val1)
    1
    >>> str(val1)
    'one'
    >>> val1.name
    'one'
    >>> val1.spanish
    'uno'
    >>> val2 = SampleEnum(slang="deuce")
    >>> int(val2)
    2
    >>> try:
    ...   se = SampleEnum("two", spanish="cero")
    ... except ValueError:
    ...   print("Value mismatch")
    Value mismatch



